Deep Research can return dozens of sources, careful citations, and pages of polished prose, yet still leave you unsure what to do.
The failure often begins before the search: the request names a topic, but not the decision the research must support.
OpenAI Academy describes research as a path from questions to evidence-backed insights and decisions.
Its guidance separates fast Search from multi-step Deep Research, and recommends an outline, sub-questions, a source strategy, evaluation criteria, citations, and an explicit account of what is still missing.
Those pieces point to a better way to ask.
Do not send a vague topic into a powerful research tool.
Give it a compact contract that defines the decision, the scope, the evidence standard, the gaps it must expose, and the shape of the final deliverable.
In this video, we will build that contract as a Decision-Ready Research Brief.
You will learn how to choose the right research depth, turn one decision into a scoped plan, judge evidence instead of merely collecting links, surface uncertainty, and request an output that can actually move work forward.
Keep one principle in view: good research is not measured by how much material it gathers.
It is measured by whether another person can inspect the evidence, understand the limits, and make the next decision.